\input texinfo

@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle addr2line

@copying
This manual is for Document, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} years free time team.

@quotation
Permission is granted to
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title name-of-manual-when-printed en
@subtitle subtitle-if-any
@subtitle second-subtitle
@author author

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top addr2line

This manual is for program, version version.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* addr2line::
@c * Copying::  free time team
@end menu

@node addr2line
@chapter addr2line

@example
10 addr2line
https://sourceware.org/binutils/docs/binutils/addr2line.html#addr2line

     addr2line [-a|--addresses]
               [-b bfdname|--target=bfdname]
               [-C|--demangle[=style]]
               [-e filename|--exe=filename]
               [-f|--functions] [-s|--basename]
               [-i|--inlines]
               [-p|--pretty-print]
               [-j|--section=name]
               [-H|--help] [-V|--version]
               [addr addr ...]

addr2line translates addresses into file names and line numbers. Given an address in an executable or an offset in a section of a relocatable object, it uses the debugging information to figure out which file name and line number are associated with it.

The executable or relocatable object to use is specified with the -e option. The default is the file a.out. The section in the relocatable object to use is specified with the -j option.

addr2line has two modes of operation.

In the first, hexadecimal addresses are specified on the command line, and addr2line displays the file name and line number for each address.

In the second, addr2line reads hexadecimal addresses from standard input, and prints the file name and line number for each address on standard output. In this mode, addr2line may be used in a pipe to convert dynamically chosen addresses.

The format of the output is `FILENAME:LINENO'. By default each input address generates one line of output.

Two options can generate additional lines before each `FILENAME:LINENO' line (in that order).

If the -a option is used then a line with the input address is displayed.

If the -f option is used, then a line with the `FUNCTIONNAME' is displayed. This is the name of the function containing the address.

One option can generate additional lines after the `FILENAME:LINENO' line.

If the -i option is used and the code at the given address is present there because of inlining by the compiler then additional lines are displayed afterwards. One or two extra lines (if the -f option is used) are displayed for each inlined function.

Alternatively if the -p option is used then each input address generates a single, long, output line containing the address, the function name, the file name and the line number. If the -i option has also been used then any inlined functions will be displayed in the same manner, but on separate lines, and prefixed by the text `(inlined by)'.

If the file name or function name can not be determined, addr2line will print two question marks in their place. If the line number can not be determined, addr2line will print 0.

The long and short forms of options, shown here as alternatives, are equivalent.

-a
--addresses
Display the address before the function name, file and line number information. The address is printed with a `0x' prefix to easily identify it.
-b bfdname
--target=bfdname
Specify that the object-code format for the object files is bfdname.
-C
--demangle[=style]
Decode (demangle) low-level symbol names into user-level names. Besides removing any initial underscore prepended by the system, this makes C++ function names readable. Different compilers have different mangling styles. The optional demangling style argument can be used to choose an appropriate demangling style for your compiler. See c++filt, for more information on demangling.
-e filename
--exe=filename
Specify the name of the executable for which addresses should be translated. The default file is a.out.
-f
--functions
Display function names as well as file and line number information.
-s
--basenames
Display only the base of each file name.
-i
--inlines
If the address belongs to a function that was inlined, the source information for all enclosing scopes back to the first non-inlined function will also be printed. For example, if main inlines callee1 which inlines callee2, and address is from callee2, the source information for callee1 and main will also be printed.
-j
--section
Read offsets relative to the specified section instead of absolute addresses.
-p
--pretty-print
Make the output more human friendly: each location are printed on one line. If option -i is specified, lines for all enclosing scopes are prefixed with `(inlined by)'.
@end example







@bye
