\input texinfo

@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle texinfo

@copying
This manual is for Document, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} years free time team.

@quotation
Permission is granted to
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title name-of-manual-when-printed en
@subtitle subtitle-if-any
@subtitle second-subtitle
@author author

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top texinfo

This manual is for program, version version.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* learning materials for texinfo::
* template::
* often used command for texinfo::
@c * Copying:: free time team
@end menu

@node learning materials for texinfo
@chapter learning materials for texinfo
@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{Reference} @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html, texinfo document}
@end itemize

@node template
@chapter template

@itemize
@item
@b{template}

texinfo source example => @url{./template.texi, template}

html example => @url{./template.html, template html}

@end itemize

@itemize
@item
@b{texinfo to html}
@end itemize

@example
makeinfo --html --no-split template.texi
@end example

@itemize
@item
@b{change title}

拿到模板后先修改 @@settitle 和 @@top 后面的 "todo"， 改成自己的title。

@end itemize

@itemize
@item
@b{添加一级菜单}

参考上面的模板，在 @@menu 和 @@end menu 的中间加入菜单的名字。

在 @@end menu 的后面加上 @@node 和 @@chapter, 每一个一级菜单都需要一个成对的 node/chapter.

类似的，二级菜单是: node/section, 三级菜单是: node/subsection.

可以在 node/chapter 的后面输入正文了。

@end itemize

@itemize
@item
@b{more}

更多的常见语法规则，可以参考下面一章的介绍。

texinfo 手册参考: @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html, http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html}

@end itemize




@node often used command for texinfo
@chapter often used command for texinfo

@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{comment}
@end itemize

@example
@@c this is comment
@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{box}
@end itemize

@example
@@cartouche
@@example
text @@c box example
@@end example
@@end cartouche
@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{bold}
@end itemize

@example
@@b@{text@}
@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{url}
@end itemize

@example
@@url@{url link, text@}
@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item
@b{item}
@end itemize

@example
@@itemize @@bullet
@@item
item test
@@end itemize
@end example








@bye
