\input texinfo

@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle linux kernel maintainer YY 直播

@copying
This manual is for Document, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} years free time team.

@quotation
Permission is granted to
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title name-of-manual-when-printed en
@subtitle subtitle-if-any
@subtitle second-subtitle
@author author

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top linux kernel maintainer YY 直播

This manual is for program, version version.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* linux kernel maintainer YY 直播::
@c * Copying::  free time team
@end menu

@node linux kernel maintainer YY 直播
@chapter linux kernel maintainer YY 直播

@b{作者: zhi.a.wang@@intel.com}

@b{整理: 周文嘉}

@menu
* Abstract::
* Description::
* Related::
@c * Copying::  free time team
@end menu

@node Abstract
@section Abstract

@b{Date:} About, 16:00, 8/6 2017, Sunday

@b{Address:} @url{http://m.huya.com/1873077328, http://m.huya.com/1873077328}

@b{Content:} How to commit your first linux kernel patch

@node Description
@section Description

近期将会有 Intel 工程师， linux kernel GVT-g 作者， 以个人名义，在YY平台做一个直播。

和广大工程师一起做技术交流，内容会涵盖如何向 GVT-g 提交patch。
渴望对linux kenrel做贡献的同学，可以关注直播时间。

Ft2 team 将会把这些内容作为一个topic，整理、讨论，并且不定期在网站update。


@node Related
@section Related

2. intel gpu
@b{Ubuntu16.10:}
Ubuntu16.10: http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/releases/16.10/

@b{patch contribute}

https://01.org/zh/node/9145

https://01.org/zh/node/9140

@b{GVTg Setup Guide}

https://github.com/01org/gvt-linux/wiki/GVTg_Setup_Guide

@b{A patch example}
https://free-time-team.github.io/document/linux_kernel/overview/kernel_dev/linux_dev_affairs.html

@bye
