\input texinfo

@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle basic tools

@copying
This manual is for Document, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} years free time team.

@quotation
Permission is granted to
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title name-of-manual-when-printed en
@subtitle subtitle-if-any
@subtitle second-subtitle
@author author

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top basic tools

This manual is for program, version version.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* basic tools::
* binary tools::
* storage ::
* IDA::
* virtualbox::
* cron::
* misc::
* putty::
* remmina::
* uart tool::
@c * Copying::  free time team
@end menu

@node basic tools
@chapter basic tools

@b{compare tool}

sudo apt-get install meld

@node binary tools
@chapter binary tools

@b{hexedit}
@example
open
	hexedit file_name

close
	ctrl+x

ofen used
	<:  go to start of the file
	> :  go to end of the file
	Right:  next character
	Left:   previous character
	Down:   next line
	Up:     previous line
	Home:   beginning of line
	End:    end of line
	PUp:    page forward
	PDown:  page backward

reference
    http://linux.die.net/man/1/hexedit
    http://blog.csdn.net/dssxk/article/details/7998743 // 命令集
@end example

@b{bvi}
@example
open
	bvi test.iso

search binary
	Additional search commands: Similar to the text search commands there are additional hex-search functions '\' and '#'
  which allow to search for any byte value.Example:  "\62 76 69" will search for the string "bvi".
  Spaces between hex value are optional, so searching for "6775636B6573" will find "guckes".

: command
set cm=16

help
	man bvi
	bvi help
note: cannot handle large file
@end example

@node storage
@chapter storage

@b{mkfs}

mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdb

http://www.linfo.org/mkfs.html

http://blog.csdn.net/asx20042005/article/details/7264867

@b{fstab}

A simple /etc/fstab, using kernel name descriptors:

/etc/fstab

# <file system>        <dir>         <type>    <options>             <dump> <pass>

/dev/sda1              /             ext4      defaults,noatime      0      1

/dev/sda2              none          swap      defaults              0      0

/dev/sdb              /home         ext4      defaults,noatime      0      2

Field definitions

Each line in the /etc/fstab file contains the following fields separated by spaces or tabs:

file_system    dir    type    options    dump    pass

file system

The partition or storage device to be mounted.

dir

The mountpoint where <file system> is mounted to.

type

The file system type of the partition or storage device to be mounted. Many different file systems are supported: ext2, ext3, ext4, btrfs, reiserfs, xfs, jfs, smbfs, iso9660, vfat, ntfs, swap and auto. The auto type lets the mount command guess what type of file system is used. This is useful for optical media (CD/DVD).

options

Mount options of the filesystem to be used. See the mount man page. Please note that some options are specific to filesystems; to discover them see below in the aforementioned mount man page.

dump

Used by the dump utility to decide when to make a backup. Dump checks the entry and uses the number to decide if a file system should be backed up. Possible entries are 0 and 1. If 0, dump will ignore the file system; if 1, dump will make a backup. Most users will not have dump installed, so they should put 0 for the dump entry.

pass

Used by fsck to decide which order filesystems are to be checked. Possible entries are 0, 1 and 2. The root file system should have the highest priority 1 (unless its type is btrfs, in which case this field should be 0) - all other file systems you want to have checked should have a 2. File systems with a value 0 will not be checked by the fsck utility.

https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Fstab

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fstab

@node IDA
@chapter IDA

@example
IDA学习笔记
http://blog.csdn.net/hgy413/article/details/7721147

x86 加密exe文件调试
https://hex-rays.com/products/ida/support/tutorials/unpack_pe/manual.shtml

android代码动态加载技术
http://bbs.pediy.com/showthread.php?t=142256

IDA 6.7
http://bbs.pediy.com/showthread.php?t=197589

http://www.openrce.org/articles/
http://www.woodmann.com/forum/activity.php?s=cd5ff61f934e5106725928ba52c4b495
http://old.idapalace.net/
http://www.hexblog.com/
@end example

@node virtualbox
@chapter virtualbox

@example
ssh access

Settings -> Network -> NAT -> Port Forwarding -> 0.0.0.0 2222 10.0.2.15 22

share mouse
General -> Advanced
Shared Clipboard: Bidirectional
Drag'n'Drop: Bidirectional

share folder
Settings -> Shared Folders

VirtualBox some errors
1. Cannot Register the Hard Drive Because a Hard Drive with UUID Already Exists
$ VBoxManage internalcommands sethduuid xp.vdi
UUID changed to: 1749f020-c7fc-4b3a-871d-3f90756092345

resize
1.VBoxManage clonehd mywin7/mywin7.vdi  mywin7/mywin7-2.vdi --format VDI
2.VBoxManage modifyhd mywin7/mywin7-2.vdi --resize 51200
3.计算机-->磁盘管理-->扩展

// impack vdi image
1. sdelete -z (execute in win7)
2. shutdown win7
3. vboxmanage modifyhd zj_win7.vdi --compact (execute in ubuntu)

win7
单击"开始"-->"运行"按钮，弹出"运行"对话框，输入"dcpromo"，
单击"确定"按钮 --> 弹出"Active Directory删除向导" 窗口，
单击"下一步"；在"删除Active Directory"窗口中选定"这个服务器是域中的最后一个域控制器",
单击"下一步"；弹出"网络凭证"窗口,在"用户名" 、密码"文本框中输入密码(建立活动目录时的密码),
单击"下一步"；弹出"管理员密码"窗口,在"密码"及"确认密码"文本框中输入密码(同前),单击"下一步"；
此时出现"摘要"信息，若一切正常，则单击 "下一步"；
系统将根据您的选择，删除活动目录,经过几分钟之后,删除结束；
在"完成Active Directory降级向导"窗口中,单击"完成",即完成活动目录的删除.重新启动计算机,删除活动目录即会生效
@end example

@node cron
@chapter cron

@example
change default edit
env EDITOR=vim crontab -e  or
sudo select-editor

每天22:25执行脚本test, 参数为121231
crontab -e
25 22 * * * /home/zzy/test 121231

reference
http://askubuntu.com/questions/2368/how-do-i-set-up-a-cron-job
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CronHowto
http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/red-hat-31/how-to-change-the-default-crontab-editor-395750/
@end example

@node misc
@chapter misc

==> everything

@node putty
@chapter putty

@example
putty 颜色配置
Default Foreground: 255/255/255
Default Background: 51/51/51
ANSI Black: 77/77/77
ANSI Green: 152/251/152
ANSI Yellow: 240/230/140
ANSI Blue: 205/133/63
ANSI Blue Bold 135/206/235
ANSI Magenta: 255/222/173 or 205/92/92
ANSI Cyan: 255/160/160
ANSI Cyan Bold: 255/215/0
ANSI White: 245/222/179

full screen hotkey
Behaviour -> Full screen on Alt-Enter -> save

resource
http://keepalived.iteye.com/blog/1559012
http://blog.csdn.net/tianlesoftware/article/details/5831605
http://newzk.blog.51cto.com/2301427/584374
@end example

@node remmina
@chapter remmina

@example
ubuntu config
sudo apt-get install remmina
sudo apt-get install libfreerdp
sudo apt-get install remmina-plugin-rdp
sudo apt-get install remmina-plugin-gnome
sudo apt-get install remmina-plugin-vnc
sudo apt-get install remmina-common
sudo apt-get install libfreerdp1 libfreerdp-plugins-standard

win7 config
计算机 -> 属性 -> 远程设置 -> 允许运行任意版本远程桌面的计算机连接

ubuntu config
create a new remote desktop file ->
@end example

@node uart tool
@chapter uart tool

@example
minicom
// port set
A -    Serial Device      : /dev/ttyUSB0

// commands
Ctrl+A L // save log to file
Ctrl A Z  // Minicom Command Summary

// quit
Ctrl+A Q
Ctrl+A  Z Q

// set baut rate
qct 115200
mtk 921600
A: <next>, 选择下一个波特率
8N1

ckermit
// install and usage
sudo apt-get install ckermit
sudo kermit         // command state
sudo kermit -c     // connect state
ctrl+\  c                // return to command state from connect state
c                          // enter connect state from command state

// kermrc
cat ~/.kermrc
set line /dev/ttyUSB0
set speed 921600
set carrier-watch off
set handshake none
set flow-control none
robust
set file type bin
set file name lit
set rec pack 1000
set send pack 1000
set window 5

// kermit session
sudo kermit
set line /dev/ttyUSB[0/1]
set speed 921600
log session
c

// resource
http://linux.die.net/man/1/kermit
@end example

@bye
