\input texinfo

@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle thumb blx in linker

@copying
This manual is for Document, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} years free time team.

@quotation
Permission is granted to
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title name-of-manual-when-printed en
@subtitle subtitle-if-any
@subtitle second-subtitle
@author author

@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

Published by
@end titlepage

@c So the toc is printed at the start.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top thumb blx in linker

This manual is for program, version version.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Author::
* Paper::
@c * Copying::  free time team
@end menu

@node Author
@chapter Author

Author: XiaoLan Lee

Blog: @url{http://blog.leexiaolan.tk/}


@node Paper
@chapter Paper

链接器中Thumb BLX指令编码

几天前，由于某种需求，需要实现部分ARM链接器，于是找出了一年多前的链接器源码，
准备在此基础上实现。实现链接器过程中，若Thumb 2中的BLX指令未4字节对齐，程序就会崩溃。
而当时解决的办法就是对未对齐的BLX指令使用跳板（veneer），迂回解决的。现在，又有幸和BLX重逢了，当时烦恼于BLX问题的场景依然记忆犹新。
于是乎，按照以前的解决方案，按部就班的完成了这次的需求。

事后反思，直觉告诉我应该不会是BLX指令对齐引起的。因为在Thumb 2中，BLX实际上是两条Thumb指令，而Thumb指令只需要halfword（2字节）对齐。
那问题在哪里呢？

指令本身没有错，错应该就出在指令的操作数的编码上。前面看到的资料，就简单介绍说，两条Thumb指令的低11位，
拼接起来，左移1位并符号扩展成一个32位的偏移量，这个偏移量加上程序计数器PC的值，最终得到一个32位的目标绝对地址。
仔细阅读了手册后，发现上述计算方法有点小问题，这就是程序崩溃的根本原因。

对BLX指令的编码，手册中有如下描述：

1. Form the base address for the branch. This is the address of the first of the two Thumb instructions(the one with H == 10), plus 4.
In other words, the base address is equal to the PC value read by that instruction.

2. If the instruction is BLX, set bit[1] of the target address to be equal to bit[1] of the base address.
This is an exception to the normal rule that bits[1:0] of the address of an ARM instruction are 0b00.
This adjustment is required to ensure that the restrictions associated with the H == 01 form of the instruction are obeyed.

3. Subtract the base address from the target address to form the offset. [1]

原来对于未4字节对齐的BLX指令，在计算偏移量时，目标ARM子程序的地址需要加2。按此修改程序，测试通过。

结论：遇到问题尽量看官方手册，对其它来源的信息的正确性需要仔细审查。

[1]: @url{https://silver.arm.com/download/download.tm?pv=1073121, ARMv5 Architecture Reference Manual} Page A7-27.






@bye
